Welcome back Lincoln is one of the best things that has happened to the job market.
Now depending on your geographic location you'll see different levels of activity for Linked-In.
So this is something that you'll have to consider for yourself and make sure that linked in is a good
option for your location.
Now let's have a look at Linked-In so we can talk about it and also to see if it's a viable option for
yourself.
The best way to actually see if it's worth your time to invest in a LinkedIn profile is to actually
just do a search for jobs and in here you can do all sorts of filters.
But if I go to all filters you can look for jobs based on your location and the type of job that you're
looking for if there are jobs then perhaps you need a LinkedIn profile because well this is a great
way to apply to jobs which you can do on LinkedIn but also have recruiters contact you through Linked-In
which actually happens a lot.
And we're going to get into that a little bit later.
I personally think that Linked-In is a hundred percent better than resumes and it's something that every
single person should have.
Especially if you want a job and the tech industry and by the way I'm no specialist when it comes to
Linked-In and there's a lot of people in books that talk about how to optimize these things.
However if you craft things well enough you'll find you'll get contacted by recruiters constantly on
Linked-In.
I actually have to add on my profile a little bit of no recruiters please because our to get contacted
so often by recruiters from my experience speaking with other people.
When you have a good LinkedIn profile you'll get contacted for job offers which again is a great thing
to have in the back of your pocket as an extra way to increase those odds of getting an interview.
So here's the keys to Linked-In fast and quick.
Number one is to look for jobs and apply to jobs through LinkedIn.
Again I showed you how to do that.
You can see what jobs are available and actually apply to them directly linked in is pretty much like
your resume so it should have very similar items on your resume.
Whatever makes your profile complete.
Well you should add it over here just like I have done for myself.
Now the interesting thing here is that recruiters for other companies and tech recruiters usually search
Linked-In for candidates and what they do is they you.
Keyword searches.
So if I'm a recruiter looking for let's say a Python developer I'm going to google Python developer
and maybe check that a Linked In profile.
How's the word Python in it.
Maybe I'll check that if I scroll down here that their indoor skills where are they.
That skills in endorsements that this person has Python and perhaps whether this person changed their
profile recently and that's a little trick.
Update your profile every week when you're looking for a job on Linked-In since it's going to show up
in a recruiters search result.
So even if it's a small change such as just a little typo or a little space it's going to show up as
an updated profile.
And recruiters are actually going to see that this person changed their profile recently which means
they're more likely to be looking for a job and they're more likely to reach out to you.
So you can actually just do this every couple of days when you're looking for a job so that it increases
your odds of you getting onto recruiters search results.
You also want to include keywords that recruiters are looking for and I have an example here for you
if I scroll to one of my positions here.
I have a list of my favorite tools in 2017.
And I actually did this strategically because all these tools that I'm using are now key words that
if a recruiter or companies looking for somebody with Mongo DB experience or maybe server less architecture
or Firebrace or any of these things my profile includes those so I'm going to show up in those results.
So think of it that way.
What are the key words that will make you more approachable.
Finally try to get recommendations from other people.
Message your friends or colleagues or coworkers and get them to refer you.
That recruiters or companies will read this but again when your profile shows up in searches it's more
likely to be ranked higher up because you have these recommendations.
By the way these skills and endorsements are things that will usually you get from people such as your
connections on Linked-In.
It's really hard to get this number up.
So I've actually created a little group for us where if I go to groups and by the way Linked-In is updating
these so it's going to actually change most likely from how you see it in the video.
And here we have members that you can connect with and actually ask for referrals skills and endorsement
just to again boost your LinkedIn profile.
Finally something that we're going to talk about in the email section but some of the best way to get
jobs is to not just blindly email companies that don't know anything about you getting referrals or
being referred by somebody within the company is one of the best ways to do that.
And for me myself I'm not very sociable.
I don't really like networking and going to events or perhaps maybe I don't know somebody at a company
and there's no way for me to get a referral.
Well Linked-In allows us to do this by simply searching for let's say Netflix.
I want to work on Netflix.
I'm going to click on this company or actually if we go back and do Netflix and click on Netflix in
people I'm going to look for people that work in Netflix if it works.
You go a little bit slow there and I see here people that actually work on Netflix and some my connections
to them I see that I have shared connections and I can message somebody I can connect with them.
I can also see that this person is actually a recruiter and Netflix and I have some sort of a shared
connection.
Maybe I saw her message her and see if I can get an introduction or maybe I can pass my resume onto
her or set up a phone interview.
In other words Linked-In allows us to see that we have mutual friends and we can't vouch for each other's
credibility or perhaps contact somebody directly.
Netflix that can get us an interview.
Again it's all about being strategic and efficient and doing what most people aren't willing to do which
will make you stand up.
All right.
So to review update your LinkedIn profile with the skills that you have.
And according to the jobs that you're targeting recruiters are going to use Linked-In to look for candidates
and they'll always search for users who have recently changed their profiles since it signals to them
that this person's looking for a job.
And also try to include the relevant skills and have those keywords ready so that you do show up in
those search your souls.
You can also apply to jobs directly through Linked-In.
And you can also find people or companies that you want to work for that you can connect with message
or get referrals from Again something we'll talk a little bit more in detail in our email section using
a tool like this that allows you to be discovered while you're sleeping just optimizes your chance of
getting interviews without making you spend a ton of time trying to get those interviews again so you
can focus on things that really matter.
I'll see in the next video Buh-Bye.